# Smart-Fuel-Tank
Our innovation
This project is aimed at digitalizing the amount of fuel (petrol in litres) of the two wheeler automobiles. The fuel system in our current vehicles were indicated as ‘EMPTY’ or ‘MIDDLE’ or ‘HIGH’. But, the exact value of fuel (in litres) is not-known. Also, when the tank changes its proximity or angle, it shows incorrect indication. Thus, when we are far away or at any remote places, the current indication might create some risks of remaining in that remote place due to not knowing the correct amount of fuel in the vehicle. This will be the problem statement for this project.
	For fuel indication (in litres), we must interface a sensor to measure the depth/ distance from the top of the tank and a sensor to measure the angle/proximity of the tank. The former was selected as ‘Ultrasonic Sensor’ and the latter sensor was selected as ‘Gyroscopic Sensor’. 
	With the help of Ultrasonic sensor, the distance of fuel from top of the petrol tank will be measured and interfaced with Arduino for further processing. The distance measured is shown as output through Arduino.
The distance measured may change due to different proximity of the tank. Thus, this will also create problems of incorrect fuel indication. This is overcome by the use of gyro sensor. This sensor is also interfaced with Arduino and shows the angle measurements in 3 – axis through Arduino. 
These interfaced sensors values are then processed such that for the known fuel amount (in litres) projected at different angle will show different fuel amount. By this trial and error method, the correct amount of fuel at different angles are stored and shows the approximate amount of fuel present inside that fuel tank. This Smart Fuel System can be a solution to two wheelers to know the exact value of fuel in their vehicles to avoid risks at future.
